# ReversingLabs GitLab CI configuration: rl-scanner-gitlab-include

ReversingLabs provides the officially supported GitLab CI configuration for faster and easier deployment of the `rl-secure` solution in CI/CD workflows.

The `rl-scanner-gitlab-include` repository provides the remote include configuration file called `gl-include-remote-reversinglabs-rl-scanner.yml`.
Users can add this to their existing pipelines using the following syntax:


        include:
          - remote: <raw url of the yml file>


The configuration uses the official [reversinglabs/rl-scanner](https://hub.docker.com/r/reversinglabs/rl-scanner) Docker image to scan a single build artifact with `rl-secure`, generate the analysis report, and display the analysis status as one of the checks in the GitLab interface.

This configuration is most suitable for experienced users who want to include it into more complex workflows.


## What is rl-secure?

`rl-secure` is a CLI tool that's part of the [secure.software platform](https://www.secure.software/) - a new ReversingLabs solution for software supply chain protection.

With `rl-secure`, you can:

- Scan your software release packages on-premises and in your CI/CD pipelines to prevent threats from reaching production.
- Compare package versions to ensure no vulnerabilities are introduced in the open source libraries and third-party components you use.
- Prevent private keys, tokens, credentials, and other sensitive information from leaking into production.
- Improve developer experience and ensure compliance with security best practices.
- Generate actionable analysis reports to help you prioritize and remediate issues in collaboration with your DevOps and security teams.


## How the include configuration works

The include configuration is a remote file that needs to be included into the main GitLab pipeline and that acts as its test stage.

This configuration expects that the build artifact is produced before the test stage and uploaded to the job for it to be shared between jobs.
It requires specifying the path of the artifact as the input to the pipeline.
The path must be relative to the root of the GitLab repository.

Users also need to specify the report directory name, as the pipeline saves all supported analysis report formats for the artifact into that directory.
The directory path must be relative to the root of the GitLab repository.
The CycloneDX report is uploaded separately to the same user-provided report directory and can be used for [compliance purposes](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/user/compliance/license_scanning_of_cyclonedx_files/).

This pipeline has specific checks for [environment variables](#environment-variables) and [input parameters](#inputs) that throw an error if any values are missing.

The scan job runs a set of commands that pull the latest version of the `reversinglabs/rl-scanner` Docker image and scan the provided artifact inside a container.
A specific entrypoint has to be used in order to make the image compatible with GitLab runner.
When the security scan is done, the container automatically shuts down, and the action outputs the analysis result as a status message (PASS, FAIL, ERROR).


## Requirements

1. **A valid rl-secure license with site key**. If you don't already have a site-wide deployment license, follow the instructions in [the official rl-secure documentation](https://docs.secure.software/cli/deployment/rl-deploy-quick-start#prepare-the-license-and-site-key) to get it from ReversingLabs. You don't need to activate the license - just save the license file and the site key for later use. You must convert your license file into a Base64-encoded string to use it with the Docker image.

2. **Your rl-secure license information added as secrets** to your GitLab organization or repository. Use predefined [environment variables](#environment-variables) to provide the secrets to the pipeline.

**Note for GitLab Enterprise users:** The GitLab CI/CD must be appropriately configured for the repository where you want to use the pipeline. If you don't have the [appropriate role](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/quick_start/index.html), contact your GitLab organization administrators for help.


## Environment variables

This configuration requires the `rl-secure` license data to be passed using the following environment variables.

| Environment variable | Required | Description |
| :--------- | :------ | :------- |
| `RLSECURE_ENCODED_LICENSE` | **Yes** | The `rl-secure` license file as a Base64-encoded string. Users must encode the contents of your license file, and provide the resulting string with this variable. |
| `RLSECURE_SITE_KEY` | **Yes** | The `rl-secure` license site key. The site key is a string generated by ReversingLabs and sent to users with the license file. |

These secrets have to be defined via your GitLab repository `Settings → CI/CD → Variables`.

ReversingLabs strongly recommends following best security practices and [defining these secrets](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/variables/) on the level of your GitLab organization or repository.


## How to use this include configuration

The most common use-case for this configuration is to run it as the "test" stage of the pipeline, after the build artifact has been created.

To use the `rl-secure` security scanning functionality, a valid site-wide deployment license is required.
This type of license has two parts: the site key and the license file.
ReversingLabs sends both parts of the license to users on request.
Users must then encode the license file with the Base64 algorithm.
The Base64-encoded license string and the site key must be provided to the pipeline using [environment variables](#environment-variables).


### Inputs

| Input parameter         | Required | Description |
| :---------              | :-----   | :------ |
| `MY_ARTIFACT_TO_SCAN`   | **Yes**  | The file name of the artifact to be scanned. The artifact must exist before the test stage is run. |
| `PACKAGE_PATH`          | **Yes**  | The location relative to the checkout of the artifact to be scanned. This artifact is expected to be found at: `${PACKAGE_PATH}/${MY_ARTIFACT_TO_SCAN}`. |
| `REPORT_PATH`           | **Yes**  | The location relative to the checkout where the reports are created. Provide an empty directory, `REPORT_PATH` is deleted and re-created before the scan starts. |
| `RLSECURE_PROXY_SERVER`   | No | Server name for proxy configuration (IP address or DNS name). |
| `RLSECURE_PROXY_PORT`     | No |  Network port on the proxy server for proxy configuration. Required if `RLSECURE_PROXY_SERVER` is used. |
| `RLSECURE_PROXY_USER`     | No | User name for proxy authentication. |
| `RLSECURE_PROXY_PASSWORD` | No | Password for proxy authentication. Required if `RLSECURE_PROXY_USER` is used. |
| `RL_STORE`                | No | Use this self hosted package store during the scan. |
| `RL_PACKAGE_URL`          | No | Use this `PURL` during scan. |
| `RL_DIFF_WITH`            | No | Request that the report also includes a diff against this previously scanned version. |
| `RL_VERBOSE`              | No | Set to anything but '' to provide more feedback in the output while running the scan. Disabled by default. |


### Outputs

| Output parameter | Description |
| :--------- | :------ |
| `DESCRIPTION` | The result of the action - a string terminating in FAIL or PASS. |
| `STATUS` | The single-word status representing the result of the action. It can be any of the following: success, failure, error. <br>**Success** indicates that the resulting string contains PASS. <br> **Failure** indicates the resulting string contains FAIL. <br>**Error** indicates that something went wrong during the scan and the action was not able to retrieve the resulting string. |


### Artifacts

The job creates the reports in the directory: `$REPORT_PATH`.
The reports are always created even if the scan job fails.

Users can control the `REPORT_PATH` as an input parameter.
The directory specified must be empty.


## Examples

The following example is a basic pipeline that includes the remote as the test stage.

The workflow scans a build artifact with `rl-secure`, saves the report, and displays the analysis results.
The remote can be included anywhere in the configuration file, but it will run only after the build stage.

### Example with proxy and rl-store configured (for a local runner)

        # REQUIREMENTS:
        #   RLSECURE_SITE_KEY: must be declared as global variables type 'variable'
        #   RLSECURE_ENCODED_LICENSE: must be declared as global variables type 'variable'

        variables:
          MY_ARTIFACT_TO_SCAN: bash
          PACKAGE_PATH: packages
          REPORT_PATH: RlReport
          RLSECURE_PROXY_SERVER: a-proxy.in-a.domain
          RLSECURE_PROXY_PORT: 3128
          RLSECURE_PROXY_USER: proxy_user
          RLSECURE_PROXY_PASSWORD: proxy_password
          RL_STORE: /rl-store
          RL_PACKAGE_URL: testing/demo-rl-scanner@v1.0.3
          # RL_DIFF_WITH: v1.0.1
          RL_VERBOSE: 1

        include:
          # - remote: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/reversinglabs/rl-scanner-gitlab-include/main/rl-scanner-gitlab-include.yml'
          - remote: 'https://raw.githubusercontent.com/maarten-boot/rl-scanner-gitlab-include/main/rl-scanner-gitlab-include.yml'

        job-build:
          stage: build

          image:
            name: fedora:latest # or any other image you require

          artifacts:
            name: "build_artifact"
            paths:
              - $PACKAGE_PATH/*

          script:
            - |
              export HOME=$( pwd ); echo $HOME
              mkdir $PACKAGE_PATH # prepare to build a artifact as the build output
              cp /bin/${MY_ARTIFACT_TO_SCAN} $PACKAGE_PATH/

        job-deploy:
          stage: deploy

          image:
            name: ubuntu:latest # or any other image you require

          script:
            - |
              # here we have access to all artifacts
              # of the previous jobs
              # so $PACKAGE_PATH and $REPORT_PATH should be visible
              export HOME=$( pwd ); echo $HOME
              ls -la .
              ls -la $PACKAGE_PATH
              ls -la $REPORT_PATH
              echo "This job deploys something from the $CI_COMMIT_BRANCH branch."

## GitLab Runners

The current template is based on the way the gitlab hosted runners work. That means they expect a docker based [executor](https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/executors/).

In order to use the provided template you wil have to install your own runner(s) locally and if you need to have one central package store you will have to set that up using NFS or CIFS.

The docker runners can only use external volumes that are configured in the [config.toml](https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/commands/index.html#configuration-file) for your `executor` file.

An example `config.toml is shown here to show how the `rl-store` is shared between all docker instances.
In this example we have used a `NFS` based shared `rl-store` that can be use by multiple `executors`.


        concurrent = 1
        check_interval = 0
        shutdown_timeout = 0

        [session_server]
          session_timeout = 1800

        [[runners]]
          name = "gitlab-runner-***"
          url = "https://gitlab.com"
          id = <some id>
          token = "**********************"
          token_obtained_at = <some date>
          token_expires_at = <some other date>
          executor = "docker"
          [runners.cache]
            MaxUploadedArchiveSize = 0
          [runners.docker]
            tls_verify = false
            image = "<your image configured>"
            privileged = false
            disable_entrypoint_overwrite = false
            oom_kill_disable = false
            disable_cache = false
            volumes = [
              "/cache",
              "/mount/nfs/rl-store:/rl-store:rw",
            ]
            shm_size = 0

## Useful resources

- The official `reversinglabs/rl-scanner` Docker image [on Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/reversinglabs/rl-scanner)
- [Supported file formats](https://docs.secure.software/concepts/filetypes) and [language coverage](https://docs.secure.software/concepts/language-coverage) for `rl-secure`
- Introduction to [secure software release processes](https://www.reversinglabs.com/solutions/secure-software-release-processes) with ReversingLabs
- [Software supply chain security for application security teams](https://3375217.fs1.hubspotusercontent-na1.net/hubfs/3375217/Documents/Business-Brief-Software-Supply-Chain-Security-for-Application-Security-Teams.pdf) (link to a PDF document)
- [Use CI/CD configuration from other files](https://docs.gitlab.com/ee/ci/yaml/includes.html)
- [GitLab Runner](https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/)
- [GitLab executor](https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/executors/)
- [GitLab Docker executor 'config.toml'](https://docs.gitlab.com/runner/commands/index.html#configuration-file)
